[Picture of nmdb.org with url in large print]

Hi Everyone, Let's go over the simple and advanced search of the NeuroML database. NeuroML DB is a search engine that allows neuroscientists to find the simulator-independent NeuroML code of computational models of neurons and networks. Once you have the NeuroML of a neuron or network model, you can then easily incorporate all or parts of it into your model and run it on any supported simulator like Neuron or Genesis. Ok, so lets begin. The website is: neuroml dash db dot org. 

[Simple Search]

The homepage will take you directly to the search engine. The simple case is if you know exactly for what you're looking. Suppose you're looking for a pyramidal cell in the hippocampus. Typing pyramidal and hitting search will find any models that match this keyword. Here you can see the matching models and we can get their details. Let's pick this model.

You can see the authors of this model, the original paper the model was published in, and the components of this model: channels and synapses. If this was a network model, you would also see the component cells. Most importantly, you can see and download the NeuroML files of this model too. You can preview the files in the raw XML format or in more human-readable HTML. If you decide to download, you'll receive a zip file containing the model and all of its sub-components.

Ok, lets move on to the advanced search. 

[Advanced Search: Brain Region, Neurotransmitter, or Both]

The advanced search is where things get interesting. In the simple search, we knew exactly for what we were looking. Now, we'll be able to find models if we know just a few clues. The search engine can find models of networks or cells that are within brain regions or release certain neurotransmitters. Lets try the region search first. 

Suppose you're interested in cells or networks within the cerebellum. Let's type it in. On the right side, you'll see all models that are within the cerebellum. You can see that a models is within cerebellum, because of the bold text underneath each model. The cerebellum has many sub-regions, and you can search by typing in those sub-regions as well.

So that was a Region search, now suppose you're interested in inhibitory cells that release gaba as their neurotransmitter. Typing in gaba will return all gaba releasing cells. 

You can also combine the clues and look for cells that release certain neurotransmitter and are found within a certain brain region. So for example, typing in glutamate cerebellum will return all models of glutamate releasing cells that are located within the cerebellum.

[Intro Slide again]

Ok, that sums it up. Go ahead and give it a try at neuroml dash db dot org, where you can find computational neuroscience models implemented in NeuroML.
